NAME
====

seccomp_attr_set, seccomp_attr_get - Manage the seccomp filter
attributes

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;
    enum scmp_filter_attr;

    int seccomp_attr_set(scmp_filter_ctx ctx,
     enum scmp_filter_attr attr, uint32_t value);
    int seccomp_attr_get(scmp_filter_ctx ctx,
     enum scmp_filter_attr attr, uint32_t *value);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp_attr_set**() function sets the different seccomp filter
attributes while the **seccomp_attr_get**() function fetches the
filter attributes. The seccomp filter attributes are tunable values that
affect how the library behaves when generating and loading the seccomp
filter into the kernel. The attributes are reset to their default values
whenever the filter is initialized or reset via
**seccomp_filter_init**(3) or **seccomp_filter_reset**(3).

The filter context *ctx* is the value returned by the call to
**seccomp_init**(3).

Valid *attr* values are as follows:

**SCMP_FLTATR_ACT_DEFAULT**

:   The default filter action as specified in the call to
    **seccomp_filter_init**(3) or **seccomp_filter_reset**(3). This
    attribute is read-only.

**SCMP_FLTATR_ACT_BADARCH**

:   The filter action taken when the loaded filter does not match the
    architecture of the executing application. Defaults to the
    **SCMP_ACT_KILL** action.

**SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_NNP**

:   A flag to specify if the NO_NEW_PRIVS functionality should be
    enabled before loading the seccomp filter into the kernel. Setting
    this to off ( *value* == 0) results in no action, meaning that
    loading the seccomp filter into the kernel will fail if
    CAP_SYS_ADMIN is missing and NO_NEW_PRIVS has not been
    externally set. Defaults to on ( *value* == 1).

**SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_TSYNC**

:   A flag to specify if the kernel should attempt to synchronize the
    filters across all threads on **seccomp_load**(3). If the kernel is
    unable to synchronize all of the thread then the load operation will
    fail. This flag is only available on Linux Kernel 3.17 or greater;
    attempting to enable this flag on earlier kernels will result in an
    error being returned. Defaults to off ( *value* == 0).

**SCMP_FLTATR_API_TSKIP**

:   A flag to specify if libseccomp should allow filter rules to be
    created for the -1 syscall. The -1 syscall value can be used by
    tracer programs to skip specific syscall invocations, see
    **seccomp**(2) for more information. Defaults to off ( *value* ==
    0).

**SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_LOG**

:   A flag to specify if the kernel should log all filter actions taken
    except for the **SCMP_ACT_ALLOW** action. Defaults to off (
    *value* == 0).

**SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_SSB**

:   A flag to disable Speculative Store Bypass mitigations for this
    filter. Defaults to off ( *value* == 0).

**SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_OPTIMIZE**

:   A flag to specify the optimization level of the seccomp filter. By
    default libseccomp generates a set of sequential 'if' statements
    for each rule in the filter. **seccomp_syscall_priority(3)** can
    be used to prioritize the order for the default cause. The binary
    tree optimization sorts by syscall numbers and generates consistent
    **O(log n)** filter traversal for every rule in the filter. The
    binary tree may be advantageous for large filters. Note that
    **seccomp_syscall_priority(3)** is ignored when
    SCMP_FLTATR_CTL_OPTIMIZE == 2.

    The different optimization levels are described below:

    **0**

    :   Reserved value, not currently used.

    **1**

    :   Rules sorted by priority and complexity (DEFAULT).

    **2**

    :   Binary tree sorted by syscall number.

**SCMP_FLTATR_API_SYSRAWRC**

:   A flag to specify if libseccomp should pass system error codes back
    to the caller instead of the default -ECANCELED. Defaults to off (
    *value* == 0).

RETURN VALUE
============

Returns zero on success or one of the following error codes on failure:

**-EACCES**

:   Setting the attribute with the given value is not allowed.

**-EEXIST**

:   The attribute does not exist.

**-EINVAL**

:   Invalid input, either the context or architecture token is invalid.

**-EOPNOTSUPP**

:   The library doesn't support the particular operation.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_ALLOW);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_attr_set(ctx, SCMP_FLTATR_ACT_BADARCH, SCMP_ACT_TRAP);
    	if (rc < 0)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp_init**(3), **seccomp_reset**(3), **seccomp_load**(3),
**seccomp**(2)
