.TH "seccomp_arch_add" 3 "15 June 2020" "paul@paul-moore.com" "libseccomp Documentation"
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH NAME
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
seccomp_arch_add, seccomp_arch_remove, seccomp_arch_exist, seccomp_arch_native, seccomp_arch_resolve_name, seccomp_arch_name \- Manage seccomp filter architectures
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH SYNOPSIS
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.nf
.B #include <seccomp.h>
.sp
.B typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;
.sp
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_X86
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_X86_64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_X32
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_ARM
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_AARCH64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_LOONGARCH64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_M68K
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPS
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPS64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPS64N32
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPSEL
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPSEL64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_MIPSEL64N32
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_PPC
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_PPC64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_PPC64LE
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_S390
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_S390X
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_SH
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_SHEB
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_PARISC
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_PARISC64
.B #define SCMP_ARCH_RISCV64
.sp
.BI "uint32_t seccomp_arch_resolve_name(const char *" arch_name ");"
.BI "const char *seccomp_arch_name(uint32_t " arch_token ");"
.BI "uint32_t seccomp_arch_native();"
.BI "int seccomp_arch_exist(const scmp_filter_ctx " ctx ", uint32_t " arch_token ");"
.BI "int seccomp_arch_add(scmp_filter_ctx " ctx ", uint32_t " arch_token ");"
.BI "int seccomp_arch_remove(scmp_filter_ctx " ctx ", uint32_t " arch_token ");"
.sp
Link with \fI\-lseccomp\fP.
.fi
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH DESCRIPTION
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.P
The
.BR seccomp_arch_exist ()
function tests to see if a given architecture has been added to the seccomp
filter in
.IR ctx ,
where the
.BR seccomp_arch_add ()
and
.BR seccomp_arch_remove ()
add and remove, respectively, architectures from the seccomp filter.  In all
three functions, the architecture values given in
.I arch_token
should be the
.BR SCMP_ARCH_*
defined constants; with the
.BR SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE
constant always referring to the native compiled architecture.  The
.BR seccomp_arch_native ()
function returns the system's architecture such that it will match one of the
.BR SCMP_ARCH_*
constants.  While the
.BR seccomp_arch_resolve_name ()
function also returns a
.BR SCMP_ARCH_*
constant, the returned token matches the name of the architecture
passed as an argument to the function.
.P
The
.BR seccomp_arch_name ()
function is the inverse of
.BR seccomp_arch_resolve_name ():
it takes an architecture token and returns the canonical architecture name
string.  If the token is
.BR SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE
the name of the native architecture is returned.  The returned string is a
static constant; the caller must not free it.  Returns NULL if the token is
not recognized.
.P
When a seccomp filter is initialized with the call to
.BR seccomp_init (3)
the native architecture is automatically added to the filter.
.P
While it is possible to remove all architectures from a filter, most of the
libseccomp APIs will fail if the filter does not contain at least one
architecture.
.P
When adding a new architecture to an existing filter, the existing rules will
not be added to the new architecture.  However, rules added after adding the
new architecture will be added to all of the architectures in the filter.
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH RETURN VALUE
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.P
The
.BR seccomp_arch_add (),
.BR seccomp_arch_remove (),
and
.BR seccomp_arch_exist ()
functions return zero on success or one of the following error codes on
failure:
.TP
.B -EDOM
Architecture specific failure.
.TP
.B -EEXIST
In the case of
.BR seccomp_arch_add ()
the architecture already exists and in the case of
.BR seccomp_arch_remove ()
the architecture does not exist.
.TP
.B -EINVAL
Invalid input, either the context or architecture token is invalid.
.TP
.B -ENOMEM
The library was unable to allocate enough memory.
.P
The
.BR seccomp_arch_resolve_name ()
and
.BR seccomp_arch_native ()
functions return an architecture token value greater than zero on success and
zero on failure.
.P
The
.BR seccomp_arch_name ()
function returns a pointer to a static architecture name string on success and
NULL if the architecture token is not recognized.
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH EXAMPLES
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.nf
#include <seccomp.h>

int main(int argc, char *argv[])
{
	int rc = \-1;
	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
	if (ctx == NULL)
		goto out;

	if (seccomp_arch_exist(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_X86) == \-EEXIST) {
		rc = seccomp_arch_add(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_X86);
		if (rc != 0)
			goto out_all;
		rc = seccomp_arch_remove(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE);
		if (rc != 0)
			goto out_all;
	}

	/* ... */

out:
	seccomp_release(ctx);
	return \-rc;
}
.fi
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH NOTES
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.P
While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel, kernel
support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter generated by
libseccomp.
.P
The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp.  This tool,
as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development, please
report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH AUTHOR
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.SH SEE ALSO
.\" //////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////
.BR seccomp_init (3),
.BR seccomp_reset (3),
.BR seccomp_merge (3)
