NAME
====

seccomp\_api\_get, seccomp\_api\_set - Manage the libseccomp API level

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    const unsigned int seccomp_api_get(void);
    int seccomp_api_set(unsigned int level);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp\_api\_get**() function returns an integer representing the
functionality (\"API level\") provided by the current running kernel. It
is important to note that while **seccomp\_api\_get**() can be called
multiple times, the kernel is only probed the first time to see what
functionality is supported, all following calls to
**seccomp\_api\_get**() return a cached value.

The **seccomp\_api\_set**() function allows callers to force the API
level to the provided value; however, this is almost always a bad idea
and use of this function is strongly discouraged.

The different API level values are described below:

**0**

:   Reserved value, not currently used.

**1**

:   Base level support.

**2**

:   The SCMP\_FLTATR\_CTL\_TSYNC filter attribute is supported and
    libseccomp uses the **seccomp(2)** syscall to load the seccomp
    filter into the kernel.

**3**

:   The SCMP\_FLTATR\_CTL\_LOG filter attribute and the SCMP\_ACT\_LOG
    action are supported.

**4**

:   The SCMP\_FLTATR\_CTL\_SSB filter attribute is supported.

**5**

:   The SCMP\_ACT\_NOTIFY action is supported.

RETURN VALUE
============

The **seccomp\_api\_get**() function returns an integer representing the
supported API level. The **seccomp\_api\_set**() function returns zero
on success, negative values on failure.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	unsigned int api;

    	api = seccomp_api_get();
    	switch (api) {
    	case 2:
    		/* ... */
    	default:
    		/* ... */
    	}

    	return 0;

    err:
    	return -1;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore \<paul\@paul-moore.com\>
