NAME
====

seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name - Resolve a syscall name

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int seccomp_syscall_resolve_name(const char *name);
    int seccomp_syscall_resolve_name_arch(uint32_t arch_token,
     const char *name);
    int seccomp_syscall_resolve_name_rewrite(uint32_t arch_token,
     const char *name);
    char *seccomp_syscall_resolve_num_arch(uint32_t arch_token, int num);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name()**,
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_arch()**, and
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_rewrite()** functions resolve the
commonly used syscall name to the syscall number used by the kernel and
the rest of the libseccomp API, with
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_rewrite()** rewriting the syscall
number for architectures that modify the syscall. Syscall rewriting
typically happens in case of a multiplexed syscall, like
**socketcall**(2) or **ipc**(2) on x86.
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_num\_arch()** function resolves the syscall
number used by the kernel to the commonly used syscall name.

The caller is responsible for freeing the returned string from
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_num\_arch()**.

RETURN VALUE
============

In the case of **seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name()**,
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_arch()**, and
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_rewrite()** the associated syscall
number is returned, with the negative pseudo syscall number being
returned in cases where the given syscall does not exist for the
architecture. The value **\_\_NR\_SCMP\_ERROR** is returned in case of
error. In all cases, the return value is suitable for use in any
libseccomp API function which requires the syscall number, examples
include **seccomp\_rule\_add**() and **seccomp\_rule\_add\_exact**().

In the case of **seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_num\_arch()** the associated
syscall name is returned and it remains the callers responsibility to
free the returned string via **free**(3).

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_rule_add(ctx, SCMP_ACT_ALLOW,
    	                      seccomp_syscall_resolve_name("open"), 0);
    	if (rc < 0)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_load(ctx);
    	if (rc < 0)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

In case of bare syscalls implemented on top of a multiplexed syscall,
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name()** and
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_arch()** can be used to verify if a
bare syscall is implemented for a specific architecture, while
**seccomp\_syscall\_resolve\_name\_rewrite()** can be used to determine
the underlying multiplexed syscall.

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore \<paul\@paul-moore.com\>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp\_rule\_add**(3), **seccomp\_rule\_add\_exact**(3)
