NAME
====

seccomp_version - Query the libseccomp version information

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    struct scmp_version {
    unsigned int major;
    unsigned int minor;
    unsigned int micro;
    }

    const struct scmp_version *seccomp_version(void);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp_version**() and **seccomp_reset**() functions return a
pointer to a **scmp_version** struct which contains the version
information of the currently loaded libseccomp library. This function
can be used by applications that need to verify that they are linked to
a specific libseccomp version at runtime.

The caller should not attempt to free the returned **scmp_version**
struct when finished.

RETURN VALUE
============

The **seccomp_version**() function returns a pointer to a
**scmp_version** structure on success, NULL on failure. The caller
should not attempt to free the returned structure.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	const struct scmp_version *ver;

    	ver = seccomp_version();
    	if (ver == NULL)
    		goto err;

    	/* ... */

    	return 0;

    err:
    	return 1;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>
