NAME
====

seccomp\_arch\_add, seccomp\_arch\_remove, seccomp\_arch\_exist,
seccomp\_arch\_native - Manage seccomp filter architectures

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;

    #define SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE
    #define SCMP_ARCH_X86
    #define SCMP_ARCH_X86_64

    uint32_t seccomp_arch_resolve_name(const char *arch_name);
    uint32_t seccomp_arch_native();
    int seccomp_arch_exist(const scmp_filter_ctx ctx, uint32_t arch_token);
    int seccomp_arch_add(scmp_filter_ctx ctx, uint32_t arch_token);
    int seccomp_arch_remove(scmp_filter_ctx ctx, uint32_t arch_token);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp\_arch\_exist**() function tests to see if a given
architecture has been added to the seccomp filter in *ctx* , where the
**seccomp\_arch\_add**() and **seccomp\_arch\_remove**() add and remove,
respectively, architectures from the seccomp filter. In all three
functions, the architecture values given in *arch\_token* should be the
**SCMP\_ARCH\_\*** defined constants; with the **SCMP\_ARCH\_NATIVE**
constant always referring to the native compiled architecture. The
**seccomp\_arch\_native**() function returns the system\'s architecture
such that it will match one of the **SCMP\_ARCH\_\*** constants. While
the **seccomp\_arch\_resolve\_name**() function also returns a
**SCMP\_ARCH\_\*** constant, the returned token matches the name of the
architecture passed as an argument to the function.

When a seccomp filter is initialized with the call to
**seccomp\_init**(3) the native architecture is automatically added to
the filter.

While it is possible to remove all architectures from a filter, most of
the libseccomp APIs will fail if the filter does not contain at least
one architecture.

When adding a new architecture to an existing filter, the existing rules
will not be added to the new architecture. However, rules added after
adding the new architecture will be added to all of the architectures in
the filter.

RETURN VALUE
============

The **seccomp\_arch\_add**() and **seccomp\_arch\_remove**() functions
return zero on success, negative errno values on failure. The
**seccomp\_arch\_exist**() function returns zero if the architecture
exists, -EEXIST if it does not, and other negative errno values on
failure.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	if (seccomp_arch_exist(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_X86) == -EEXIST) {
    		rc = seccomp_arch_add(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_X86);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    		rc = seccomp_arch_remove(ctx, SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    	}

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore \<paul\@paul-moore.com\>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp\_init**(3), **seccomp\_reset**(3), **seccomp\_merge**(3)
