NAME
====

seccomp_export_bpf, seccomp_export_pfc - Export the seccomp filter

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;

    int seccomp_export_bpf(const scmp_filter_ctx ctx, int fd);
    int seccomp_export_pfc(const scmp_filter_ctx ctx, int fd);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp_export_bpf**() and **seccomp_export_pfc**() functions
generate and output the current seccomp filter in either BPF (Berkeley
Packet Filter) or PFC (Pseudo Filter Code). The output of
**seccomp_export_bpf**() is suitable for loading into the kernel,
while the output of **seccomp_export_pfc**() is human readable and is
intended primarily as a debugging tool for developers using libseccomp.
Both functions write the filter to the *fd* file descriptor.

The filter context *ctx* is the value returned by the call to
**seccomp_init**(3).

While the two output formats are guaranteed to be functionally
equivalent for the given seccomp filter configuration, the filter
instructions, and their ordering, are not guaranteed to be the same in
both the BPF and PFC formats.

RETURN VALUE
============

Return zero on success or one of the following error codes on failure:

**-ECANCELED**

:   There was a system failure beyond the control of the library.

**-EFAULT**

:   Internal libseccomp failure.

**-EINVAL**

:   Invalid input, either the context or architecture token is invalid.

**-ENOMEM**

:   The library was unable to allocate enough memory.

If the *SCMP_FLTATR_API_SYSRAWRC* filter attribute is non-zero then
additional error codes may be returned to the caller; these additional
error codes are the negative *errno* values returned by the system.
Unfortunately libseccomp can make no guarantees about these return
values.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;
    	int filter_fd;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	filter_fd = open("/tmp/seccomp_filter.bpf", O_WRONLY);
    	if (filter_fd == -1) {
    		rc = -errno;
    		goto out;
    	}

    	rc = seccomp_export_bpf(ctx, filter_fd);
    	if (rc < 0) {
    		close(filter_fd);
    		goto out;
    	}
    	close(filter_fd);

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp_init**(3), **seccomp_release**(3)
