NAME
====

seccomp_load - Load the current seccomp filter into the kernel

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;

    int seccomp_load(scmp_filter_ctx ctx);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

Loads the seccomp filter provided by *ctx* into the kernel; if the
function succeeds the new seccomp filter will be active when the
function returns.

As it is possible to have multiple stacked seccomp filters for a given
task (defined as either a process or a thread), it is important to
remember that each of the filters loaded for a given task are executed
when a syscall is made and the "strictest" rule is the rule that is
applied. In the case of seccomp, "strictest" is defined as the action
with the lowest value (e.g. *SCMP_ACT_KILL* is "stricter" than
*SCMP_ACT_ALLOW* ).

RETURN VALUE
============

Returns zero on success or one of the following error codes on failure:

**-ECANCELED**

:   There was a system failure beyond the control of the library.

**-EFAULT**

:   Internal libseccomp failure.

**-EINVAL**

:   Invalid input, either the context or architecture token is invalid.

**-ENOMEM**

:   The library was unable to allocate enough memory.

**-ESRCH**

:   Unable to load the filter due to thread issues.

If the *SCMP_FLTATR_API_SYSRAWRC* filter attribute is non-zero then
additional error codes may be returned to the caller; these additional
error codes are the negative *errno* values returned by the system.
Unfortunately libseccomp can make no guarantees about these return
values.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx;

    	ctx = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx == NULL)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_load(ctx);
    	if (rc < 0)
    		goto out;

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx);
    	return -rc;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp_init**(3), **seccomp_reset**(3), **seccomp_release**(3),
**seccomp_rule_add**(3), **seccomp_rule_add_exact**(3)
