NAME
====

seccomp_merge - Merge two seccomp filters

SYNOPSIS
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    typedef void * scmp_filter_ctx;

    int seccomp_merge(scmp_filter_ctx dst, scmp_filter_ctx src);

    Link with -lseccomp.

DESCRIPTION
===========

The **seccomp_merge**() function merges the seccomp filter in *src*
with the filter in *dst* and stores the resulting in the *dst* filter.
If successful, the *src* seccomp filter is released and all internal
memory associated with the filter is freed; there is no need to call
**seccomp_release**(3) on *src* and the caller should discard any
references to the filter.

In order to merge two seccomp filters, both filters must have the same
attribute values and no overlapping architectures.

RETURN VALUE
============

Returns zero on success or one of the following error codes on failure:

**-EDOM**

:   Unable to merge the filters due to architecture issues, e.g. byte
    endian mismatches.

**-EEXIST**

:   The architecture already exists in the filter.

**-EINVAL**

:   One of the filters is invalid.

**-ENOMEM**

:   The library was unable to allocate enough memory.

EXAMPLES
========

    #include <seccomp.h>

    int main(int argc, char *argv[])
    {
    	int rc = -1;
    	scmp_filter_ctx ctx_32, ctx_64;

    	ctx_32 = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx_32 == NULL)
    		goto out_all;
    	ctx_64 = seccomp_init(SCMP_ACT_KILL);
    	if (ctx_64 == NULL)
    		goto out_all;

    	if (seccomp_arch_exist(ctx_32, SCMP_ARCH_X86) == -EEXIST) {
    		rc = seccomp_arch_add(ctx_32, SCMP_ARCH_X86);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    		rc = seccomp_arch_remove(ctx_32, SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    	}
    	if (seccomp_arch_exist(ctx_64, SCMP_ARCH_X86_64) == -EEXIST) {
    		rc = seccomp_arch_add(ctx_64, SCMP_ARCH_X86_64);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    		rc = seccomp_arch_remove(ctx_64, SCMP_ARCH_NATIVE);
    		if (rc != 0)
    			goto out_all;
    	}

    	/* ... */

    	rc = seccomp_merge(ctx_64, ctx_32);
    	if (rc != 0)
    		goto out_all;

    	/* NOTE: the 'ctx_32' filter is no longer valid at this point */

    	/* ... */

    out:
    	seccomp_release(ctx_64);
    	return -rc;
    out_all:
    	seccomp_release(ctx_32);
    	goto out;
    }

NOTES
=====

While the seccomp filter can be generated independent of the kernel,
kernel support is required to load and enforce the seccomp filter
generated by libseccomp.

The libseccomp project site, with more information and the source code
repository, can be found at https://github.com/seccomp/libseccomp. This
tool, as well as the libseccomp library, is currently under development,
please report any bugs at the project site or directly to the author.

AUTHOR
======

Paul Moore <paul@paul-moore.com>

SEE ALSO
========

**seccomp_init**(3), **seccomp_reset**(3), **seccomp_arch_add**(3),
**seccomp_arch_remove**(3), **seccomp_attr_get**(3),
**seccomp_attr_set**(3)
